From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 17 recorded live
Thursday, April 26th, 2012. Support for Hanselman
it's this provided by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training
developers to work smarter and
now offering gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details at gesture,
pak.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with former space shuttle
flight controller and current international
space station engineer, Holly Griffith.
This is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes, and we've got on
the phone. Holly Griffith, who
is a flight controller. She
works at the Johnson space
center and she's done some,
some work in space and
the space shuttle. Thank you,
Holly, for being on the
call. So I hope you
forgive me. I've looked, I'm
looking at your LinkedIn and
I'm looking at every other
word is a word I
don't understand. And I thought
I was pretty technical and
I thought I was pretty
smart, but it, it reads
like a periodic table of
elements. I hope it's not
that bad. No, I just
think it was interesting because
I thought I was technical
and I thought I was
an engineer. And I'm really,
it's interesting when I look
at other people's industries to
kind of juxtapose the different
kinds of engineering. I mean,
you're, you're a mechanical engineer,
is that correct? And that's
your, that's your training and,
and what kind of work
have you done in mechanical
engineering as it relates directly
to things like space and
aerospace? So you're right. My,
my degree is mechanical engineering.
When I first got out
of college, I worked for
about nine months at a
small aeronautical company where we
would do some design work
for airplanes and things and
repairs. And then I, but
my goal has always been
C at NASA. So I
kept putting in my resume
and I finally got called
here. When I got hired
on here, I was actually
hired into the electrical power
system department for the space
shuttle. So I spent about
seven years doing more, more
electrical engineering, the mechanical, and
then just recently this past
August after the shuttle was
retired, I got hired into
the mechanical and maintenance group
for the international space station.
So now I'm back to
doing more mechanical engineering. Wow.
And you were the, you
were the lead power systems
officer for five shuttle missions.
And then you supported what
up to 19 different shuttle
missions. Is that correct? Yes.
I think, I think that's
all right. See, actually like
21. Yeah, 1920, 21 around
there. Wow. Okay. When, when
you were a mechanical engineer
by training, by by educational
training, and then you said
that you kind of moved
into, you went from maintenance,
you moved into electrical power
and you're moving around like
this. Are they ever saying,
Oh, well, you're going to
need to go get another
degree. I mean, how are
they confident that you would
be a good lead electrical
power systems officer? Well, when
I, when I was interviewing,
they did say, you know,
well, typically we, we like
to have an electrical person,
you know, a degree electrical
engineer in this position, but
really what it is is
it's the engineering background that
you know, that, you know,
how to think, even think
outside the box, you're a
good problem solver because if
you have that background, they
can teach you what you
need to know in terms
of that specific system. So,
you know, a lot of
times they prefer to have
the degree, you know, what
your degree is in. Then
you go into that system,
but that's not always the
case. So we'll have, you
know, when I was in
the electrical systems group, we
had other mechanical engineers, we
had aerospace engineers and we
had electrical engineers. And can
you tell them apart, I
mean, do they, in the
sense of, do they use
different terminology or do they,
do they, do you ever
talk to someone and you
say, wait a second. I
don't think this guy knows
the difference between ohms and
amps and what are we
gonna do about that? I
mean, what if someone has
a major gap in their
knowledge, Oh, well then that's
a different problem. That's a
different problem because, you know,
in engineering you have, you
know, even though I was
mechanical engineer, I had a
few circuits classes. So I
had to take electrical engineering
classes and the same thing
with the, you know, electrical
engineers, they have to take
thermodynamics. So you should have
that background. And if you,
if you don't, if, I
mean, if, if your knowledge,
you don't have that basic
knowledge and that's another problem,
you probably don't need to
be working on shuttle, But
you can't know everything though.
How do you keep track
of what you're supposed to
know and what you're not
supposed to know, because you're
working on such a large
system that I assume, arguably
as a system that no
one person can hold in
their brain. Right. You're right.
You're right. And that's why
we train for so long
to get up into the
front room to get fully
certified, to take about five
years of training. But yeah,
whenever we first get hired
on, they put the, literally
put the stack of on
our desks, you know, these
like workbooks and it's for
the first few months, you're
just reading. And so you
kind of get a grasp
of the system. And then
what they did was they
sent out to this thing
called training Academy. And that
was a couple months and
you go every day and
they would teach these classes
and it was over all
the systems of the shuttle
and the, and the station,
but it was still kind
of basic, but it was
just gave you a big
overview of how all the
systems work. Then after training
Academy come back and we
would have these things called
fcts, which is flight controller
trainers. And you would have
an instructor and you would
be in front of a
computer and you would see,
you know, simulated data that
you would see on console.
And they would just put
failures in. And so, you
know, you would, you're still
learning about your system, but
as you learned, you know,
the failure modes that could
happen, you're also learning your
system then as well, and
how to handle, you know,
common failures or more basic
failures. And then after you
had done that for awhile,
and you would actually start
stemming on console where you
have the whole flight control
team, the flight director, and
the crew is up in
the simulator and we have
a whole training team and
they just throw failures at
the team. And that's when
you start really working with
the other people who are
on console and you see
how the groups interact and
how, you know, how the
failure in their system would
impact your system and vice
versa. And so it's just,
you know, these five controller
trainers, you would have two
or three a week since
you would do two or
three a week. And so
you're literally bleeding for awhile
just in this constant training
environment. And so doing that,
you know, but you still
can never know everything about
your system. You know, we
still have failures, aren't on
console where people are like,
what is this? I've never
seen it before. And so
that's when you, you know,
there's not just you and,
and the other person you're
working with it's, if you
have time, you know, that
that problem is solved by,
well, the next team comes
in and they look at
it and the next team
comes in. And then during
a flight, when they're on
console, we would have a
summer, which is the mission
evaluation room. And they would
be engineers. And that system
who they weren't on console,
but they helped design a
system or they would work
on it in other ways.
And so we would have
that whole engineering support team
behind us too. So it
wasn't just up to you
to know everything all at
once. It sounds so much,
I mean, forgive me for
the, I've only made it
seven minutes into the show
before the star Trek reference,
but this is some kind
of a Kobiashi Morrow kind
of simulation thing where it's
like, you know, they're going
to give him failures and
failures, and he's going to
refuse to allow the failure
of the simulation to affect
his, his outcome. I kept
hearing in what you were
talking about, failure, failure, failure.
You're trying to make as
many things go wrong before
the actual thing happens so
that nothing goes wrong, Right.
Or if it does go
wrong, you're, you know, you've
seen it before. And so
the Kobayashi Maru, those happened,
we did have Sims for
that would happen. Not very
often, if that happened, it
was not on purpose because
the point of, you know,
the training team was they
didn't want to put us
in that situation where, well,
no matter what we do,
we're, you know, we're, it's
not something really bad happened.
They wanted us to be
able to work through the
failures. And so if a
Kobayashi Maru situation happened, it
was done on accident where,
well, we just didn't realize,
you know, there's so many
failures deep at that point
that we didn't realize by
doing this, it would affect
this in a certain way.
And so we have a
debrief after every swim with
the crew and with the
training team. And that's something
that we would talk about,
but, you know, the point
of the seminar was not
only to help you learn
your system. It was also
to help you, you know,
especially the really high stress
stems was to be in
that environment as close as
you can mimic it. So
that if you got into
that situation on console, you
didn't just freak out and
run away or something, you
know, you were used to
having that stress. And so
you were used to being
able to sit down and
say, okay, what do I
need to do? You know,
this happened and almost go
into kind of a robot
mode. And that's what they
wanted. See, that's interesting too,
because that makes me think
about, about training and by
training. I don't mean basic
training, like the training of
going to college, but training
like Navy seal training when,
when someone's like, yes, and
then my training kicked in
and I just, my hands
were moving and my training.
Exactly, exactly. You know, Oh,
you see this failure where
you have to go to
this procedure and this step
and this procedure, and a
lot of times you would
have the page numbers or
the steps memorized because you
had done it so often.
And since That makes me
feel comforted, but it also
makes me feel a little
sad for my own industry,
because I'm trying to imagine
software engineers that come into
their job and are handed
a big, giant pile of
paper and said, you're going
to read for the next
three months to know our
systems inside and out, which
doesn't usually happen. And then
we're going to simulate failures
and make sure that, you
know, the system inside and
out, and we have a
tendency to assume everything's going
to work okay. Until it,
until it goes horribly bad.
If you found this to
be like a very intensely
professional group of people, I'm
kind of juxtaposing that our
groups are not all that
professional. We are. I mean,
yeah. Especially at work, we're
very professional. Most people who
are here have always wanted
to be here. So they,
there's a true passion about
what we do. So it's
not only about being professional
it's because you want things
to succeed. You want things
to go well, so that
does play into it too.
But when you know you,
a lot of times you
have this image of a
rocket scientist in a lab
blowing stuff up with, you
know, with a lab coat
and whatever. And it's, I
was actually kind of surprised
when I got here because
everyone is just, I mean,
they're normal people, you know,
we go out after work,
we have happy hours, we
celebrate birthdays on the weekends.
And, and so it's, you
know, pretty normal group of
people, but when we're at
work, yeah, it is, you
know, you do your job
and you get it done
and you do well. And
you know, you kind of
pulled the switch where I,
you know, when you need
to be professional and when
you need to buckle down
and say, okay, this is,
this is bad. Or, you
know, I really need to
focus on this because if
I don't do a good
job, then people die. Right.
Yeah. And that, that is
something that is different. I
mean, when we're stressed out
in software and we're, you
know, we're, maybe we're taking
a shopping cart and someone's
buying a book, we're not
saving babies. We're not in
surgery right now. And we're
certainly not flying the space
shuttle. So We do have
software engineers, you know, that
had to write the software
for the computers online and
for the simulators. And so
it's, you know, we do
have those people that they
need to do their jobs
correctly too. So, you know,
maybe your particular software engineering
job isn't like that, but
we do, we do have
plenty of programmers and software
engineers at NASA. Yeah. And
I assumed that they were,
and they, are they someone
that you interact with or
are they a group that
is nameless and faceless? No,
it wasn't faceless. I controllers
do interact with them. My
particular group that in so
much that we have, you
know, we have the data
processing system, the DPS group,
they interface with them more.
And then also the training
team, since they were working,
they would do the simulators.
They would work with them,
you know, to make sure
the code was correct. Whenever
we put in a failure
for, for a SIM that
that failure would join correctly
and you know, what would
affect the other systems correctly.
And so they interface with
them more, but know that
I wouldn't say they're nameless
and faceless. They're definitely an,
an active part of, you
know, helping us out in
the missions. That's, that's very
cool. Now the space shuttle
and some of the technology
behind it, isn't like super
cutting edge. Can you help
me understand what is cutting
edge and what isn't, because
I, when I see some
of your videos, I see
some older looking technologies and
older looking offices, and it
makes me wonder, are you
working on these things that
were built in the eighties
or, Yeah, well, the shuttle
was actually built in the
seventies. The station started to
be designed in the eighties
and, and some in the
nineties. And then, you know,
when the actual modules started
to go up in the
nineties, it, it's hard to
explain because here at ASC,
well, I'm an operations. So
you kind of don't have
a choice because these vehicles,
they take a long time
to design. They take a
long time to build, and
then they take a long
time to get ready to
fly. Cause you have to
make sure the training team's
ready yet to make sure
the flight control team's ready.
So it's not, it's not
a process where, you know,
you can say, Oh, this
is the latest cutting edge
technology. Well, it might be
today, but in 10 years,
it's not. So with the
manned space flight program, I
would say it's not so
much super cutting edge, but
with other areas, you know,
of research and things that
some of it's done here
at JSC, a lot of
it's spent out in California,
they're working on more cutting
edge technologies. I don't mean
to disparage by saying, you
know, cutting edge or not.
But I mean, reliability presumably
is more important than shine
and sparkliness, but the, but
the speed at which things
have developed and the improvements
in processing power. I mean,
I assume that my iPhone
has more power than the
original Apollo missions as far
as Rob MIPS. Yeah. When
can you take advantage of
that and are used, are
you, I assume you're using
the latest software and the
latest systems as appropriate. Like,
I guess there's a balance
between picking new technology and
picking the safest, most reliable
technology. Cause you can't have
a windows machine crash in
the middle of a space
shuttle flight. Exactly, exactly. And,
and so, yeah, that's true.
I mean, you know, for
the shuttle, we had certain
software for the station. The,
you know, we use certain
software, the next vehicle that's
being designed. I think they
are trying to do more,
maybe touch screen or you
know, more advanced technologies, but
they're still designing it. So
that's, what's out there now.
So that's what they want
to try to use. But,
you know, whenever it actually
flies, will there be something
different? I don't know. And
you manage the electrical power
systems for the space shuttle.
So you're dealing with 30,
40 year old electrical systems.
But also I assume that
some of those pieces have
been replaced cause you've got
older wiring maybe, but then
you've got new lithium ion
battery technology all in the
same machine. Right. Right. Well,
so the shovel used fuel
cells and yeah, the fuel
cell technology has been around
for a long time, but
between flights that's, what was
good about shuttles shuttle would
come home, the orbiter would
return it's Kennedy space center
and you could, you know,
bring it somewhere and the
text would look at it.
And so yeah, if we
discovered a problem with the
wiring, then we would replace
some wiring, the fuel cells,
you know, they had a
lifetime on them, so a
certain amount of hours. And
then once they, as lone
that certain amount of hours,
then you replaced a fuel
cell. And then obviously if
the fuel cell had a
failure and in flight, these
would replace that fuel cell.
So, and that was, you
know, that was true of
every system. I mean, any,
any time something would go
wrong, whether it be the
environmental system or the communication
system, they would definitely go
and look at what the
problem was and then fix
it with new components, you
know, or replace whatever needed
to be replaced. Are you
involved in those kinds of
decisions? I mean, as a,
as a power systems person,
do you make suggestions or
is there someone else who
is deciding what new parts
are going to be introduced
into a, into a complicated
system like this? You could
make a suggestion, but really
that, you know, that decision
was made at the people
with a higher people at
a higher pay grade, because
it's not just up to
us. You know, you have
the vendors, you have the
people who make you make
the fuel cells. You know,
that's another contractor, that's not
NASA. So they're the experts
on the fuel cell itself.
We operate it, they design
it, build it. So whenever
there's a problem, you know,
we generally defer to them
like, okay, well, what do
you think? And then they
make a suggestion and we
look it from an operations
point of view. So it
kind of goes back and
forth. But for the most
part, it's their decision. I,
I noticed that you did
some work on a fuel
cell cooling problem that you
mentioned in your LinkedIn here,
where you got a performance
award. What was the problem
with the fuel cell during
STS one 27? So we,
he's trying to explain it
the best way here. Don't
dumb it down too much.
I I'll do my best.
Okay. So the fuel cell
has to say within a
thermal limit, right. It can't
get too hot and it
can't get hold. And so
if it, if it does,
then you have a problem
because floods, the fuel cell
or the fuel cell could
dry out and that's not
good. So we had gotten
into a situation where a
component wasn't functioning exactly as
we expected it to. And
the fuel cell was running
hotter than normal. And so
we, you know, this was
pre launch. And so that's
a big part of what
we do. You know, you
have this problem where on
the ground we want them
on. So there's, there is
pressure to launch. If there
is something wrong, we won't
do it. So, you know,
I don't want you to
think back like challenger, no,
we just have to go.
We have to go. No,
that's, the culture has changed
so much since then, but
there is still some pressure,
you know, you've invested a
lot of time and money
and you want, you know,
there's other people depending on
you. And so you want
to try to go up.
So we're looking at this
problem pretty much. And we
had, you know, we called
in our engineering people. We
had meetings the lore for
days and days and days.
And the finally we decided,
okay, you know, we have
three fuel cells. This problem,
we looking at it, you
know, we have some data
on it. We don't think
it'll get worse if it
does. We, it's not. And
it's the, crew's not in
danger because we have two
other fuel cells. And so
we can rely on them.
So at the end of
the day, we looked at
the data and, you know,
we looked at the history
of the fuel cell and
what we thought could happen.
And we mapped out every
failure scenario that we could
think of, you know, if
this, then this and this,
and we, you know, change
some things like the procedures,
see if those needed to
be changed at all. And
then at the end of
day, we were like, we
think we're okay to go.
And so we ended up
launching kind of ends in
a way on some things,
you know, that's when I
was talking about the Sims,
that's kinda what the SIM
team tries to do too,
is not necessarily Kobayashi Maru
scenario, but not every failure
you have is like, Oh,
well this failure, we do
this. We worked this step
in this procedure. And I
said, you know, a lot
of times they want to
test your gray area. You
know? Well, I don't know.
I see this big cause
he that, and then if
I do X, then Y
happens. And if, you know,
I do Y and Z
happens. So what is the
lesser of two evils? And
we have flight rules that
help guide us that tell
us how to operate in
flight. They don't, they definitely
don't cover areas to every
scenario because there's no way
you can think of everything.
But once you get into
one of those gray area
cases, then that's where you're
like, okay, I recommend we
do this. Here's my rationale.
You know, you pull out
a fight rule, you put,
pull out past flight data,
you pull out your engineering
experience. And that's what they
really that's. The point of
the sins is to get
in those scenarios and think
about what you're going to
do. And so that, you
know, that type of thinking,
which we had done that
in SIM, it's not for
this particular case, but in
other cases it helps that
thinking process of, you know,
like I said, you go
into that mode of, well,
I need to do this
and this and this, and
look at this data and
look at that data and
okay, here's what I think,
What did they end up
doing with that cell when
they come back, they replace
it or they just keep
it in that state at
some point, You know? I
think they, yeah, they replaced
that one. I think I
re yeah, I think they
do. I'm trying to think
back. That was a few
years ago, but once, you
know, we got on orbit
and it was okay. And,
but when they came, when
it came back down, I
do think that they replaced
it, but I would need
to go check on that
to be sure, What kind
of fuel cells are they
like? What is the electrolyte
substance for the fuel cell
It's potassium, hydroxide, Koh. And
is that something that is
a, at a high temp?
Is it a high temperature
fuel cell or is that
a Well, I mean, that's
just the electrolyte. Are you
talking about the actual cryogenics?
Okay. The hydrogen and oxygen.
So that's the fuel for
the fuel cell. So we
have hydrogen and cryogenic, hydrogen
and cryogenic oxygen. So they're
cats very cold and, but,
you know, higher pressures, they
go into the fuel cells
whenever they combine, you have
the reaction with the electrolyte
and that produces the power.
And then it also produces
water. So the, it would
drink the fuel cell water
and they had sure, you
know, not contaminated, completely pure
water to drink. And then
it would also produce heat.
And so that he would
go into the cooling loops
and the cooling loops would,
you know, take the heat
away. And then we had
the radiators and it would
go out and space, Right.
Rather than using the heat
to, I guess, heat their
living quarters. I presume it
creates far too much heat
for that purpose. Yeah. Yeah.
That was the electronics. And
they're produced a lot of
heat also. And so we
had a water loop and
we had Freon loops and
they would take that away.
And also Vinod, or I
shouldn't say vent, but radiated
out into space. And do
you think having worked so
much on fuel cells and
seeing them what they can
do and the idea that
someone can actually, you know,
drink the exhaust that that's
the way things are going
and we should be using
those and not running, running
around in Prius's and hybrid
cars. I mean, you know,
I don't feel like I'm
qualified enough to answer that
because I say that, yes,
I do think fuel cells
are a good way to
go, but I don't feel
like I know enough about
the other methods that are
out there. So make that
decision so well, I mean,
I, I just feel like
I don't, I'm not, I'm
not, I'm curious about your
personal opinion. I didn't read
up. That would be a
great way to go, but
maybe I'm a little biased.
Well, I'm sure you are
biased. Cause they weren't, they've
worked very well for what
you, for what you've accomplished.
Yeah. They were, they weren't
straight the fuel cells we
used, they really, we didn't
have many failures. They work
really good. And the failures
that we did have were
generally small, like, you know,
a flow meter, you know,
something that would measure the
flow rate of something, you
know, really just a transducer
who would go out or,
you know, so it wasn't
a problem with the fuel
cell itself per se, but
just something that gave you
more instrumentation, Changing direction a
little bit. Is this, is
this a 40 hour a
week job? It's just a
nine to five or is
this something that just, you're
always going a hundred hours
a week When we're a
no, and that's, that's actually,
that's a good question because
that's one of the aspects
of the job that I
really liked. I feel like
if it was just the
nine to five job every
day I would get bored,
but sometimes you'd have you
try to have two sons
a day. When we flagged
shuttle, you'd have an ass,
an entry sound, those would
be about four hours. And
then you would have an
orbit stone, which could be
seven to eight hours. So
you try to fit in
one orbit, one after an
entry every day. So sometimes
you would be there at
seven, you know, and get
out at 12 with the
pre-brief and the debrief. And
then what You said seven
to 12 is that seven
to noon or seven Oh
seven to noon, I'm sorry.
Seven to noon. So it's
about five hours with, you
know, four hour SEM and
then you have a pre-brief
and debrief and then some
stems, you know, to let
the team reconfigure, everything started
to, he gets there at
about one. And you would
have the SEM from two
to 10. So you would
work from 2:00 PM to 10:00 PM
during flight. Now we had
to be there 24 hours
a day. She had three
teams. We would work nine
hours because we had a
handover before and after. So
once he would be on,
then the next team would
come on, they would come
on an hour before that
shifts would in to, you
know, get handed over like,
well, this is what happened.
This is what we've been
doing, you know, just to
kind of get caught up
and then they would work
their shifts. And then the
next team would come on
an hour before they got
off. And you would do
the same thing. So you
can work midnight to 8:00 AM.
You could work nine to
five or nine to six.
You could work 6:00 PM to
3:00 AM. I mean, that was
just, that was all dependent
on orbital mechanics. You know,
when the shuttle launched where
the station, you know, but
you had to make that
decision based on this station's
orbit when the shuttle would
launch. And so, and then
every day that we would
delay that would get earlier
by about 25 minutes or
so. So you could start
out with a great shift
of, you know, not having
to come in until 10
o'clock in the morning, but
then if you have lot
of delays, you could be
coming in at six o'clock
in the morning. So it's
like, Oh, you know, you
had good hours, but now
you don't. So yeah, we
would work during flights. We
would work around the clock
seven days a week, you
know, event in matter, I
think I worked two or
three Thanksgivings in a row
for a few years because
you know, you can't stop
eating. It's like, Oh, it's
Christmas gotta come home. No,
it didn't work that way.
But it balances out. I
mean, you're not burning out.
Right. So then after the
flight would land, yeah. It's
kind of go, go, go
for about two weeks we're
average flights. And then once
you land, you know, everyone
kind of took some time
off because you had gotten
so many hours during the
flight that, you know, you
had vacation time that you
could kind of chill out
for a few days. Things
quieted down around GSE, and
then you would start getting
ready for the next flight,
which is probably in the
next few months to six,
three to six months. And
that's when you really start
your swimming and your training
for that flight. But, you
know, those days were definitely
not as hectic as whenever
we were flying. And so
if you're not on SIM,
then you're just in the
office and, you know, unless
there's a big issue going
on or you have to
work a big project and
that could pretty much be
a nine to five job.
One of the things that
I wanted to ask you
is that I always knew
that I was kind of
geeky and I was always
taking things apart and putting
them back together. And I
don't know why disassembling the
toaster and reassembling the toaster
turned into a job at
Microsoft, but I'm just curious,
were you doing that kind
of stuff? Were you taking
things apart? Were you doing
rockets in the backyard when
you were five? I was
not. A lot of people
here were, I liked the
more sciency aspect of it
and that's why I think
I really liked operations. I
just liked the operations part
B. Okay. It's kind of
built in. It's done now.
How do I work with
it? That just interests me
more. That's what I gravitated
to more of the research.
I did engineering because I
thought, you know, I've always
wanted to work here and
that's been my dream since
I was about four years
old. So I kind of
looked into, well, I want
to work at NASA. What
do I need to do
to work at NASA? Oh,
engineering. And so I did
like my engineering classes, but
I was not the person
who was, you know, taking
my car apart or my
toaster or whatever it may
be and putting it back
together. Because you said you
knew this when you were
four or five. Yeah. I
have a picture of me
that my mom found. I
was actually two years old
and I'm standing there wearing
this Johnson space in our
shirts. And so I, I
don't know, maybe it started
back then maybe we had
just taken a trip to
Johnson space center and got
a shirt. But so I
like to say, see, this
is proof it started back
then, but yeah, really I
did start getting interested in
it when I was out
four or five, I was
reading it up, you know,
books, the picture books and
stuff on, and watching shows
on science fiction shows on
space and things like that.
Now you're involved deeply in
the process. But did you
ever think about actually going
up or is there ever
an opportunity for someone who
works in the, in the
main room to go up
as well? We have had
at least one person, maybe
two controllers who became astronauts.
That is something I always
wanted to do. That was
my dream there's I don't
know. I think they may
have changed the role now,
but I had gotten LASIK
eye surgery. And so that
disqualified you, you know, kind
of from the get go,
but I just have a
bachelor's degree in engineering and
you get here and you
look at the astronaut bio's
and you're like, Oh my
God. Yeah. You know what?
I have to go back
to school for a really
long time and, you know,
get up to pee, either,
get a PhD or go
into the air force and
be a test pilot. So,
I mean, it is something
I would like to do.
I don't know if I'll
get to do it, maybe
now with other, you know,
commercial companies and space tourism
and things, you know, maybe
I'll get to do it
one day, but not in
the near future, Figure out
what the right amount of
money. It would be like
famous people were spending millions.
You know what? I spend
50 grand. Yeah. 50 grand,
I think about like, what's
the price point for, for
me going to space, you
know, like what's the amount
of money. All right. I'll,
I'll, I'll, I'll defer my
retirement. I'll pull up my
401k and go to space.
I can do that. I
don't know. I mean, I
know Russian was taking space
tourists to ISS for a
week and that was 20 million.
I think the, I think
Virgin galactic had said that
they could do it for
200,000, but that's just, you
kind of go up and
your waitlist for a few
minutes and then come back
down. So whenever other companies
actually start, if they start
doing the space tourism, I'm
not sure what the price
tag would be on that,
you know, there's a lot
of man, maybe it would
go down eventually, but I
don't think that's been set
up. Yeah. I've seen people
adding, I've seen a couple
of VCs and enrich people
on Twitter that I know
change their Twitter bios to
include Virgin galactic, astronaut number
600 and whatever. And I'm
like going to space. You're
kind of just going up
really high. Yeah. Yeah. But
I mean, I guess it's
better than nothing if it's
kind of the only show
in town right now, but
hopefully, you know, the other
companies really start coming up
to speed and it's, it
becomes more normal and more
of an option, you know?
And it's not, it doesn't
take your life savings to
do it. Yeah, exactly. I
don't know if I need
to have another mortgage Right.
In conclusion. I just wanted
to also point people to
the space Tweep society. Can
you say something about what
this Yeah. Society to society.org
is an organization for people
on Twitter and eat. You
don't have to be active
on Twitter. You just need
a Twitter, you need to
be, have a Twitter ID
and, you know, log into
Twitter because that's how the
account works is a website.
But a few years ago,
when Twitter was somewhat new
myself and some other people,
I noticed that there was
a big space community on
Twitter. And, and you know,
we're like, wow, we, we
all kind of follow each
other, but you know, maybe
this person would follow another
person. And you wouldn't know,
you know, you wouldn't really
know who to follow. This
was before Twitter was doing
a lot of the recommendations
and things. And so we
started the space, trace society,
and it's kind of a
place to go where if
you're on Twitter and you're
interested in space, you know,
you can find out and
you can meet new people
and, you know, follow people
who you wouldn't have otherwise
followed because you didn't know
about them. And before when
NASA started doing their tweet
up, we would actually have
our own spacesuit society thredUP's
as well. We did a
few of those. I never
got to attend because I
was always working at center
over here. So I couldn't
go, but it's just really
a place for people to
go, who are interested in
space and who are on
Twitter and, you know, likes
to talk about space and
light to, you know, that's
their passion and it's a
way to share it with
people. That's great. And you're
a founding member. I am.
I'm one of the founding
members. Yes. Ma'am, I'm actually
at flying Jenny on Twitter.
She's, she's really the brains
and the workhorse behind the
operation she's she did a
lot of stuff and it
was really her, her brain
child. So I helped out
where I could, but she's,
you know, she's very talented
in everything when it comes
to art, science, whatever. So
she actually designed her little
mascot is a little Twitter
bird, but with a space
suit on. So we had
a contest to name him
and we named the Mico,
which is when you get
up in space and, and
you you're, you know, you're
finished, then the main engines
cut off. And so we
call it Nico main engine
cutoff. And it's, you know,
it's a popular call sign
whenever we get to that
point in board that it's
like, you hit me go
and it's Oh, okay. We
made it. We're done. We're
safe for now for the
app. We made it from
the asset portion of things.
So anyway, we're getting off
track mascots and I think
it's a very positive experience.
It's fantastic. I will add
links to the space trip
society and your Twitter and
her Twitter. You mentioned as
well as a bit of
information about some of the
things that you've worked on.
Thanks so much for taking
the time to chat with
you today. Chat with you
today. Thank you for having
me. It's been great. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again next Week. .